we start this hour in the Middle East
Israel says it has struck a series of
Hezbollah targets deep inside Lebanon
according to the Army terrorist
infrastructure was hit including
stockpiles of weapons it follows a
deadly rocket attack on the Israeli
occupied goolan Heights on Saturday in
which at least 12 people were killed
most of the casualties were teenagers
who were playing football in the town of
majal Shams Israel has blamed lebanon's
Hezbollah movement it has denied
responsibility Let's cross live now to
Jerusalem and speak to our correspondent
Barbara plat user welcome to you Barbara
tell us what's the latest on the Israeli
strikes the Israelis uh carried out
these strikes overnight in Lebanon in
the southern part of the country um
where those crossb conflicts has been
happening um over the past months with
Hezbollah but also further north in the
Baka uh according to the the Air Force
and that is uh less common for the
Israelis to strike there so I think that
was probably a message that they are
preparing for um uh for for a larger
operation and certainly that is what uh
the Israeli officials are saying the
language that they're using is very
tough the defense minister uh has said
we'll ensure that Hezbollah pays a heavy
price for this loss the Finance Minister
uh is is calling for the the the grp the
leader of Hezbollah to pay with his head
the for the foreign minister is saying
an allout war is approaching so the
rhetoric is pretty steep uh there's
going to be a security cabinet meeting
later today when the Prime Minister
returns from the United States to talk
about what the next step will be but I
think everyone is expecting uh that the
strikes that we saw overnight could be
just the beginning uh of how the
Israelis will respond and what more
details do we have about the rocket
attack on the goolan Heights in which at
least 12 people
died well that rocket struck a football
pitch where where uh children and
teenagers were playing football it it
frankly it could hardly have been worse
the all of the casualties are are young
people uh many of the names have been
released as well as the ages the
youngest was 10 the oldest was 16 uh and
there was one family that lost four
children so it's a real tragedy the
funerals are have started last night and
they will continue uh later today uh an
eyewitness said that the sirens did go
off when the rocket uh was in the was in
the air but there wasn't enough time to
get to the shelter the children were
running towards the shelter uh but the
the Goan Heights is very close to
Lebanon and so the time before the
warning came and the time that the
rocket struck wasn't enough and it
struck between the children and the and
the shelter so uh it was it was a very
very uh tragic and and uh strike and the
leadership of the community has
responded with great anger and great
anguish uh against those who Hezbollah
or they didn't name Hezbollah but they
said against the terrorists who launched
the strike but also against the Israeli
authorities saying that we really don't
have enough protection here uh because
we're right next to the border with
Lebanon we need to have more uh
protection we've had strikes before this
is just the deadliest one yeah Hezbollah
denying it was them but Israel the IDF
giving details about the rocket uh and
the bomb and saying it could only have
been
them that's right Hezbollah had been
carrying out some strikes earlier in the
afternoon on Saturday day for which it
claimed responsibility but uh it very
strongly denied that it had hit the town
of maal shamp so when the extent of the
damage became known uh based on what it
had said earlier it was targeting an
Israeli military base in the area so
it's possible that one of the rockets
misfired in fact that seems probable
it's interesting to see the reaction in
Lebanon because this conflict has been
taking place between Hezbollah and the
Israelis uh but other uh constituencies
in Lebanon have responded clearly
because they're very alarmed that this
is going to lead to a a bigger conflict
if not an allout War the head of the
Drew community in Lebanon and I should
say that the community that was hit in
Israel in the Israeli occupied Golan
Heights uh which is where M Mel Shams is
located uh was a community of uh Arab
Drews there are many Drews also in
Lebanon and the leader of that group um
did come out and condemn the killing of
civilians but he also said look
Hezbollah statement said they weren't
responsible we have to remember that the
Israelis um try to divide uh and sight
Discord and fragment the region with
their efforts and so he was putting the
emphasis on Israel rather than on
Hezbollah uh and calling for an
immediate cessation of hostilities and a
ceasefire the Lebanese government also
has made various statements it usually
stays out of of this ongoing conflict
but it again condemned the killing of
civilians but said uh that there must be
a sensation of hostilities the foreign
minister has spoken recently and he said
look I don't think hbal would have
targeted this community it's a community
of Arab Drews as I mentioned and uh and
we have a large uh number of them in the
country perhaps it was a mistake either
by Hezbollah or by Israel um but he
clearly was worried that this would lead
to a bigger conflict and he said we are
talking with Hezbollah uh and and asking
them not to retaliate at this present
time so I think uh the expectation is of
a strong Israeli strike and clearly the
Lebanese authorities are trying to
convince Hezbollah not to respond to
that okay Barbara thank you well we will
be live in Beirut in just a few moments
time first though let's remind ourselves
of how events unfolded on Saturday Mark
loen has been monitoring developments
and sent us this
[Music]
report early evening in the Israeli
occupied Golan Heights and the warning
of an incoming threat about to become
deadly and
dangerous a rocket struck a football
field where children and teenagers were
playing several were killed in the
deadliest strike since the crossborder
fire between Lebanon and Israel began
last
October the anguish of loved ones at
young lives cut short in a conflict that
could be about to escalate
sharply a rocket barrage which lit up
the sky was claimed by the Lebanese
militant group Hezbollah but it denies
firing the deadly strike onto the
football field that the Israeli Army
spokesman says is a lie this attack
shows the true face of kisala a
terrorist
organization that targets and murders
children playing socer on a Saturday
evening we will act to restore full
Security on our northern border for all
the citizens of the state of
Israel and the question is how Israel's
government will react Benjamin Netanyahu
is returning early from the US to chair
his security cabinet where he'll face
calls to hit back
hard as the young injured were rushed to
hospital fear is growing that allout war
with Hezbollah a proxy of Iran could now
be drawing
closer South in Gaza the other front of
this war Palestinians too were
scrambling to save lives this time after
Israeli strikes killed dozens here too
its children paying the price in a
nightmare with no
end the missiles tore into a school
housing displaced Garin Israel says it
targeted a Hamas command and control
center inside but from the rubble came
those simply seeking
shelter Mustafa says the blast threw him
into the air and he fell to the ground I
didn't know where to run for fear he
says so I fled inside the school
thinking it was safe but then I saw
heads hands hands and
feet the spark from the 7th of October
ignited Gaza and now Golan the question
here is will it start an
inferno Mark loen BBC News Jerusalem